Today we will talk about the famous
DAFO, which is probably the most
well-known model of strategy and
marketing.
I am sure it sounds like you.
By the way, DAFO is the term used
in Spain, FODA is used frequently
in Latin America and
SWOT Analysis is in English.
The DAFO is a relatively
simple tool to understand how
it works, but what is more complicated
is to do good analysis
from the DAFO, which is
what we should learn
to do today.
First, what is the DAFO?
What is the DAFO for?
DAFO is a strategic analysis
or diagnostic tool.
In particular, it is a tool that
allows us to understand and
analyze very well and in a very
simple way what is the current
situation of our company, from
internal, external, etc. perspectives.
It helps us to do this analysis, to
think.
Why is this important?
Well, because diagnosis
is always the first step in
planning or decision making.
When is DAFO used?
It is actually used at very
different times.
It is used when you make a strategic
plan, is one of the tools
you will use to make the
diagnosis or when you make
a marketing plan.
Sometimes it is used for obligation.
When you have to present a project,
imagine that you have an entrepreneurial
project, etc., in many cases you
are requested the DAFO, because
it is a tool that everyone knows
and it is important that
we do it well.
The DAFO is a useful tool and
we recommend using it on
a lot more occasions.
If you want to make concrete
decisions, enter a particular
market or, well, launch a
new product, etc., it
is good to make a DAFO, because
you quickly acquire very interesting
conclusions.
Let us now see what the structure
of the DAFO is and how we must
carry out the order.
Sometimes the order is put in
a different way.
In this case, what we have are
strengths, weaknesses, opportunities
and threats.
The first point we have to understand
well is that the DAFO actually
consists of two types of
analysis.
It consists of an internal analysis,
which are strengths and weaknesses.
We will analyze the company,
we will analyze ourselves and
it consists of an external analysis.
We will look outside and there we will
extract if there are opportunities
or there are threats.
Let's start with the internal analysis.
Let us start with the internal analysis,
with the internal factors.
What we have to do is, as we have
said, to analyze our company,
the current situation of our company
with the aim of identifying whether
there are or we have strengths
or weaknesses that will help
us or not to generate competitive
advantages or reach
our goals.
Here the hard thing is, well, I'm
going to analyze my company, but
where to start?
So we have shared a list
of topics you should consider.
Themes related to the
brand, customer experience,
product range, financial
capacity, human capital,
networking, entry
barriers, efficiency
in operations,
etc.
It's easier, when you have a
listing, it's almost a checklist,
I think you have to at least
look at it to see if you have
strengths or weaknesses in some
of those factors.
Let us see some examples of fortresses.
For strengths, it also results that
we are better at something very specific
or that we have a very specific
knowledge that others do not have
or our brand is more potent than
that of the competition and we can
build that, we can make a product
development or we can increase
the prices by leveraging
on that brand that we have.
We may have agreements with
suppliers, we may have assets
that are very valuable.
Imagine you have a restaurant
and you have the best place
in the city.
You may have patents or more
money than others, better access
to financial resources, more ability
to finance yourself to grow.
It can be that your brand positioning
is more potent or that you have,
imagine, better knowledge
of your customers, you are a company
closer to your customers
than the rest or you have a
broader range of products, etc.
But what is the other side
of the coin, at the end?
In some cases we have weaknesses.
Imagine, we don't have clear strategic
plans, we're going a little bit out
of course or on the contrary
we have less ability to access
financing, we may lack knowledge
or experience something
specific.
Imagine you know less about technology
than others or less about marketing
than others.
We have a structure that is very heavy,
that is less flexible, that is difficult
to innovate, or that we have
a higher cost structure, which is
weakening us in relation to competition.
Imagine that we have a less prepared
trading force or we have
less motivated teams, etc.
I'm sure you already understand
a bit what the analysis approach is.
The first thing you need to know
is where to look and from
there we have to identify if
we have strengths or weaknesses
that will help us our goals,
grow in the market, etc.
Now, let's go to the external analysis.
What we do here is look
outside.
Looking out for what?
To identify whether external factors
are or will be generated opportunities
or threats that we have
to take into account.
The challenge is, but what
analysis?
Where do I begin to analyze?
We suggest you consider
five factors.
First, we start with the market
and the customers.
We will think about whether the
market we are targeting, well, whether
it will grow or not, whether it
will change, for example,
the tastes or needs of customers,
how it will evolve demand,
behaviors, etc.
We can think of the customers that is
always the most important thing.
But outside there are also other
factors that can generate
opportunities or threats
such as suppliers, distributors.
A very important factor are competitors.
We need to analyze the competition.
We have to see if its size, the
evolution it will have in the
coming years, etc.
They create opportunities or threats.
Or political, legal, regulatory,
etc.
Or economic factors, such
as the economy, exchange
rates, the growth of the
economy in other types of markets,
etc.
Another factor to consider is
technology.
Technology often creates
opportunities or threats.
Well, from these factors, from the analysis
of those five factors, what
we have to identify is whether
we will be able to take advantage
of some opportunity, if they will
present some opportunity or, on
the contrary, they will generate
threats.
Let us look at examples.
Possible opportunities.
Well, because maybe we can enter
new markets because some of
the markets or some of the segments
are growing or we can maybe
or what we have to do in this
case is to expand the range
of products because we
are identifying new needs
in some of the segments.
Or it results, imagine, that the
purchasing capacity of your
customers, because the economic
cohort grows, etc.
You know it will grow in the
coming years.
Well, because from a conclusion
so what we should do would be
to invest or the same results
that we analyze the competition
and one of our most important
competitors has serious problems,
is losing its customers,
etc.
Or you have financial problems.
We should make decisions
on this.
We have to be more aggressive
or we have to buy them.
It may be that the market is
growing very fast, which is
expected to grow very fast in
the coming years.
Or imagine that it turns out that
in the medium term we will develop
a technology that will come very
well for us or to improve our
product or to be more cost efficient,
etc.
These are all opportunities
that we can identify from external
analysis.
But also in many cases what
happens is that external
factors generate threats.
We will give them examples.
Imagine a very powerful foreign
competitor who plans to enter
our country and is heavily capitalized
or that political instability
or legal or economic
instability is growing
in some of the countries
in which we are present,
for example.
Or that we know that it is likely that
new laws will be passed that can
do us a lot of harm.
Or there are tax changes.
The tax time will rise and
we will have to pay much more
for corporate tax.
Or, for example, it will increase
volatility or increase the
price of raw bacteria.
Either it turns out that we sell
a product and the needs or tastes
of consumers are changing,
consumer patterns and
demand are deriving
to substitute products.
What we have to
do is analyze.
A internal analysis and from a
number of factors we have to do
a fairly comprehensive analysis.
Looking at all the prospects of
the company we have to identify if
we have to go out and do an external
analysis.
The key is not to lose anything.
Analyze the market,
competition, sector,
political, legal, economic,
technology, etc.
Why is it?
Because this way we will be
able to identify whether there will be
opportunities that we can take advantage
of or if, on the contrary, they will
present threats to us.
If there are threats, we have
to identify them in advance
to prepare ourselves.